**Style Guide for INC publication series**

Publication does not preclude you from submitting your text for
publication elsewhere. However, please contact the Institute of Network
Cultures beforehand.

We would like you to take some time to use this referencing system and
adopt your text to it – this will save us a lot of work in editing and
formatting the texts.

**Language style**:

- Try not to use ‘formal’ language. INC publications are not academic
publications (though they answer to an academic level of content), so
avoid speak such as: ‘In this paper we will show’, ‘The methodological
questions are’, etc. and try to use anecdotes and a lively style of
writing. Open with a telling example or statement and explain how this
can be understood, rather than starting with a summary of what follows.

- When in doubt, follow the Chicago Manual of Style newest edition.

- Reference Merriam-Webster (online version) for spelling issues.

**Document Formatting / Layout:**

*General*

- Submissions should be sent preferably in .docx.

- Use only one clean and clear font, the same throughout.

- The whole text should have **Normal** style as default.

- The title and author should have **Heading 1** style, article sections
should have **Header 2** and subsections **Header 3** style.

- Use single spacing between lines.

- Text should be aligned on the left.

- Do not use tabs for paragraph breaks at any time but a white space
between paragraphs.

- Add *italics* where needed (references, emphasis on single words).

- Do not use underlining at any time.

- URLs in the body text should not be clickable.

- All headings and subtitles are capitalized. Capitalize the first word
of the title, the last word of the title, and all nouns, pronouns,
verbs, adverbs, adjectives. Do not capitalize prepositions or
conjunctions unless contain more than 4 letters. For example: Social
Media Monopolies and Their Alternatives.

- Italicize (no quotation marks) proper names such as films, books,
television series, works of art, etc. Song titles, for example, are
placed between single quotation marks, while album titles are
italicized.

- Use the serial comma.

*Footnotes and referencing*

- All references should be auto-inserted footnotes (in other words, no
in text references that use parentheses/brackets). For example, *not:*
Off the Press discusses the question of digital publishing (Lorusso,
2013). *But*: Off the Press discusses the question of digital
publishing.[^1]

- All references should also be collected into a Reference list at the
end of the article.

- Always put a period at the end of a footnote, even if it just a URL
(make sure the URL still works).

- Footnote numbers comes after comma/period; this is also the case if
the comma/period follows a quotation mark. I.e.: ‘an alternative
network’.[^2]

- URLs in footnotes should be clickable.

- In the footnotes and in the reference list full URLs should be
clickable but not stylized as links (no color or underlining).

- Make sure all references that appear in footnotes also appear in the
reference list at the end of the text.

- Dates in footnotes should be 19 November 2010 (not November 19, 2010).

- For specific formatting of footnotes and reference list, see further
on in this style guide.

*Quotations*

- For quotations longer than four lines use blockquote. Don’t use
quotation marks around a block quote. When needed, use double quotations
marks inside a block quote.

- Commas and full stops should be placed after the quotation mark, if
they’re not part of the quotation.

- All quotations should use single quotation marks except in instances
of a quote inside a quote (in such cases use double quotation marks
inside single quotation marks).

- If ellipsis are used in a quotation because the article’s author has
removed or altered text, for example for the sentence to read
grammatically correctly, be sure to put square brackets […] or [has]
around the ellipsis to indicate this notation is made by the author.

**Images:**

- Authors must have copyright to the images, or permission to use them.

- Images can be in full colour or black and white (note that the print
edition will be black and white).

- Images should be included in the text file at the right position as 72
dpi jpeg and, at the same time, sent separately as 300 dpi tiff
(suitable for for print).

- Files must be properly named and numbered in the following format:
\<Author\_image1.tiff\> / \<Author\_image1.jpg\>

- Include captions below the images. Start with ‘Fig. 1.’ etc. Do not
put image and caption in a table, but write the caption as a normal
sentence under the picture.

**Word Choice:**

- Use American spelling:

\* favor, color, honor, theater, center vs. favour, colour, honour,
theatre, centre,

\* use ‘-ize’ instead of ‘-ise’ For instance, organize, categorize,
standardize, authorize, etc.

- Although the INC uses American English, if quotes use British or other
spellings, leave as is in the original quote – do not change to U.S.
English.

- internet, not Internet

- web not Web (but World Wide Web should be capitalized, and Web 2.0)

- 18th not eighteenth century

- 90s not nineties

**Footnote and End References:**

Text references in footnotes and in the list of works cited
(bibliography, aka Reference List) should follow the same formatting.
Footnote references should adopt the following formats:

***Footnote Referencing:***

**Anonymous/unknown authors:**

Largely found in news outlets (print and online) as well as blogs etc.
If no author given, the citation should begin with the name of the
article in single brackets.

**Books**

David Harvey, *A Brief History of Neoliberalism*, Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2005.

Antonio Negri, *Insurgencies: Constituent Power and the Modern State*,
trans. Maurizia Boscagli, Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,
1999.

**Edited books [note: ed. and eds – no full stop after eds]**

Paul Di Maggio (ed.) *The Twenty­ First Century Firm: Changing Economic
Organization in International Perspective*, Princeton: Princeton
University Press, 2001.

Kevin Robbins and Frank Webster (eds) *The Virtual University?
Knowledge, Markets and Managment*, Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2001.

**If edition of book is marked**

Jessica Benjamin, *Shadow of the Other: Intersubjectivity and Gender in
Psychoanalysis*, 1st edition, London: Routledge, 1997.

**If original publication date of book is given**

Display date of current publication followed by original date in
brackets – this is largely the case for theoretical and other classical
works that have been published and circulated in the past century, but
maintain consistent used and reprint. For example:

Walter Benjamin, 'Critique of Violence', trans. Edmund Jephcott, in
Walter Benjamin, *One-Way Street and Other Writings*, London: NLB, 1979
(1921), pp. 236-252.

**Translated books**

Paolo Virno, *A Grammar of the Multitude*, trans. James Cascaito,
Isabella Bertoletti, and Andrea Casson, forw. Sylvère Lotringer, New
York: Semiotext(e), 2004.

**Chapters in books**

Mario Tronti, ‘The Strategy of Refusal’, trans. Red Notes, in Sylvère
Lotringer and Christian Marazzi (eds) *Italy: Autonomia, Post­Political
Politics*, New York: Semiotext(e), 1980, pp. 28-35.

Mike Newnham, ‘Foreword’, in Paul Miller and Paul Skidmore,
*Disorganisation: Why Future Organisations must ‘Loosen Up’*, London:
Demos, 2004, p. 9. Available at:
<http://www.demos.co.uk/files/Disorganisation.pdf>.

Ernesto Laclau, ‘Can Immanence Explain Social Struggles?, in Paul A.
Passavant and Jodi Dean (eds) *Empire’s New Clothes: Reading Hardt and
Negri*, New York and London: Routledge, 2004, p. 27.

**If chapter listed from book is written by same author:**

Walter Benjamin, 'Critique of Violence', trans. Edmund Jephcott, in
Walter Benjamin, *One-Way Street and Other Writings*, London: NLB, 1979
(1921), pp. 236-252.

**Journal articles [note: full page no’s given in list of references at
end of essay]**

Andrew Murphie, ‘The World as Clock: The Network Society and
Experimental Ecologies’, *Topia: A Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies*
11 (Spring, 2004): 136.

Angela Mitropoulos and Brett Neilson, ‘Exceptional Times,
Non­Governmental Spacings, and Impolitical Movements’, *Vacarme*
(January, 2006), <http://www.vacarme.eu.org/article484.html>.

Branden W. Joseph and Paolo Virno, ‘Interview with Paolo Virno’, trans.
Alessia Ricciardi, *Grey Room* 21 (Fall, 2005): 32,
[http://mitpress.mit.edu/journals/pdf/GR21\_026­037\_Jospeph.pdf](http://mitpress.mit.edu/journals/pdf/GR21_026­037_Jospeph.pdf).

Timothy Brennan, ‘The Empire’s New Clothes’, *Critical Inquiry* 29.2
(2003): 337­-367.

Phillip E. Agre, ‘Real­Time Politics: The Internet and the Political
Process’, *The Information Society* 18.5 (2002): 311-­331. Also
available from:
[http://polaris.gseis.ucla.edu/pagre/real­time.html](http://polaris.gseis.ucla.edu/pagre/real­time.html).

**Thesis**

Author First Name and Last name, *Title of dissertation*, PhD diss.,
Name of Faculty if known, Name of Institution, City/Country Location,
Year.

**Websites [note: no need to detail access date]**

Bologna Secretariat, <http://www.dfes.gov.uk/bologna/>.

Google Now, <http://www.google.com/landing/now/>.

**Pages from blogs**

Joseph Reagle, ‘Open Communities and Closed Law’, *Open Codex blog*, 13
June 2006, [http://reagle.org/joseph/blog/culture/wikipedia/open­
discourseclosed­
law?showcomments=yes](http://reagle.org/joseph/blog/culture/wikipedia/open).

Jon Beasley­ Murray, ‘Politics’, *Posthegemony: Hegemony, Posthegemony,
and Related Matters*, 16 July 2006,
<http://posthegemony.blogspot.com/2006/07/politics.html>.

**Postings to mailing lists**

Brian Holmes, ‘The Flexible Personality’ (Parts 1 & 2), posting to
nettime mailing list, 5 January 2002, <http://www.nettime.org>.

[if there is an online archive of the mailing list, and a URL is
available for the specific content, please list this]

**Conferences/events**

*Dark Markets: Infopolitics, Electronic Media and Democracy in Times of
Crisis*, International Conference by Public Netbase/t0, Muesumsplatz,
Vienna, 3­4 October, 2002, <http://darkmarkets.t0.or.at>.

**Presentations at Conference/events**

Harry Halpin, ‘The Hidden History of the “Like” Button’, Unlike Us:
Understanding Social Media and their Monopolies Conference, Amsterdam,
8-10 March 2012, URL or presentation if possible, or conference URL.

**Films**

*Organizing the Unorganizables* (dir. Florian Schneider, 2002),
downloadable at: <http://wastun.org/organizing>.

**Newspapers**

Douglas Adams, ‘How to Stop Worrying and Learn to Love the Internet’,
*The Sunday Times,* 29 August 1999,
<http://www.douglasadams.com/dna/19990901-00-a.html>.

David Mehegan, ‘Bias, Sabotage Haunt Wikipedia’s Free World’, *Boston
Globe*, 12 February 2006.

**Books**

Hayles, N. Katherine. *How We Became Posthuman: Virtual Bodies in
Cybernetics, Literature, and Informatics*, Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1999.

**Magazines**

Nick Carr, ‘Is Google Making Us Stupid?’, *Atlantic Monthly*, July 2008,
<http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200807/google>.

**Wikipedia**

Wikipedia contributors, ‘Criticism of Wikipedia’, 28 October 2010,
<http://en.wikipedia.org/?oldid=393467654>, accessed 1 November 2010.

**Forum / Discussion post**

R. Sadler, 'How to Cite a contribution to the Forum’, 3 November 2006,
TESL Reading and Writing Forum,
http://www.eslweb.org/resources/index.php?topic=256.0.

**Facebook update/post**

Auschwitz Memorial / Muzeum Auschwitz, ‘On 13-14 March 1943 German […]’,
Facebook update, 13 March 2012, 13:25,
<http://www.facebook.com/auschwitzmemorial/posts/10150592000141097>.

[Facebook user/group profile name, title of update/post, Facebook
update, date, time, URL of specific post/update.]

**Twitter tweet **

@El\_Deeb, ‘[\#Tahrir](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23Tahrir&src=hash)
has turned into a lifestyle, a way of living, a utopian city’, Twitter
post, 25 November 2011, 1:56 AM,
[https://twitter.com/\#!/El\_Deewb/status/140006010197786624](#!/El_Deewb/status/140006010197786624).

[Twitter user name, twitter post text, Twitter post, date, time, URL of
tweet. ]

**For footnote references that have more than one citation, provide a
short reference for subsequent uses:**

First citation:

Marc Bousquet, ‘The “Informal Economy” of the Information University’,
*Workplace: A Journal for Academic Labour* 5.1 (2002),
http://www.cust.educ.ubc.ca/workplace/issue5p1/bousquetinformal.html.

Second/third/etc. footnote citation:

Bousquet, ‘The “Informal Economy” of the Information University’.

If the first citation has a subtitle, then drop the subtitle in future
references.

***References/Bibliography List at End of Text:***

At the end of your essay provide a full list of all references. The
difference from the above references is that they should be listed
alphabetically with author’s surname first.

Also substitute the comma that follows authors name with a period.

For anonymous texts or texts with unknown author, the citation should
begin with the title of the article in single brackets, the first letter
of which signals the citations place in the alphabetized bibliography
list.

*Example*

Adorno, Theodor W. *Negative Dialectics*, trans. E. B. Ashton, London:
Routledge, 1990.

Agamben, Giorgio. *The Coming Community*, trans. Michael Hardt,
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1993.

Agre, Phil. ‘Commodity and Community: Institutional Design for the
Networked University’, in Kevin Robbins and Frank Webster (eds) *The
Virtual University? Knowledge, Markets and Managment*, Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2001, pp. 210­-223.

\_\_\_\_\_. ‘Real­Time Politics: The Internet and the Political
Process’, *The Information Society* 18.5 (2002): 311­-331.

Althusser, Louis. ‘Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses’, in
*Lenin and Philosophy and Other Essays*, trans. Ben Brewster, New York:
Monthly Review Press, 1971, pp. 127-­186.

Althusser, Louis and Balibar, Étienne. *Reading Capital*, trans. Ben
Brewster, London: Verso, 1979.

Angus, Ian. ‘The Politics of Common Sense: Articulation Theory and
Critical Communication Studies’, *Communication Yearbook* 15 (1992):
535-­570.

\_\_\_\_\_. ‘Orality in the Twilight of Humanism: A Critique of the
Communication Theory of Harold Innis’, *Continuum: The Australian
Journal of Media & Culture* 7.1 (1993): 16­42.

\_\_\_\_\_. ‘The Materiality of Expression: Harold Innis’ Communication
Theory and the Discursive Turn in the Human Sciences’, *Canadian Journal
of Communication* 23.1 (1998): 9­29.

[^1]: Lorusso, 2013, p. 23.

[^2]: Footnote.
